OBSDOCS-1730: Port Configuring the logging collector to 5.8 and 6.y docs (#89176)
openshift/openshift-docs: observability/logging/logging_release_notes/cluster-logging-collector.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
:context: cluster-logging-collector
[id="cluster-logging-collector"]
= Configuring the logging collector
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]

toc::[]

{logging-title-uc} collects operations and application logs from your cluster and enriches the data with Kubernetes pod and project metadata.
All supported modifications to the log collector can be performed though the `spec.collection` stanza in the `ClusterLogging` custom resource (CR).

include::modules/configuring-logging-collector.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/creating-logfilesmetricexporter.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/cluster-logging-collector-limits.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="cluster-logging-collector-input-receivers_{context}"]
== Configuring input receivers

The {clo} deploys a service for each configured input receiver so that clients can write to the collector. This service exposes the port specified for the input receiver.

> The service name is generated based on the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service name is generated based on the following cases:
```

OR situations/conditions/scenarios depends what suits more here.

Author: chaned to "The service name is generated as follows:", WDYT?

Reviewer: sounds good

> * For multi log forwarder `ClusterLogForwarder` CR deployments, the service name is in the format `<ClusterLogForwarder_CR_name>-<input_name>`. For example, `example-http-receiver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For multi log forwarder `ClusterLogForwarder` CR deployments, the service name is in the `<clusterlogforwarder_resource_name>-<input_name>` format, for example, `example-http-receiver`.
```

Author: done

> * For legacy `ClusterLogForwarder` CR deployments, meaning those named `instance` and located in the `openshift-logging` namespace, the service name is in the format `collector-<input_name>`. For example, `collector-http-receiver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For legacy `ClusterLogForwarder` CR deployments named `instance` and that are located in the `openshift-logging` namespace, the service name is in the `collector-<input_name>` format, for example, `collector-http-receiver`.
```
